Officials state that Balkan armies all common arrange women soldiers and support staff in the mission of peacekeeping, where greatly contribute success missions.

Macedonian army published that will woman lead their contingent in mission ALTEA in Bosnia and Herzegovina (WERE).

Officials said that army puts striking accent on the equality of genders now offers good chances women for engagement in the missions of peacekeeping.

Army fully applies standards NATO for woman in the missions of peacekeeping, said spokesman of Macedonian army Mirče Gjorgjoski.

"Majors in mission ALTEA gave full command responsibility, and our medical team in mission is responsible for full medical support soldiers in the base of Butmir in Sarajevo, where are situated strength EUFOR", told Gjorgjoski for SETimes.

Gjorgoski said that is brass several from 3200 Macedonian soldiers who are from 2002 served in peace missions were 141 women, and expects that will that number raised since assume all meeting responsibility in missions in abroad.

"In Afganistan woman do high high-risk task equal good just like men. Steady get high scores and praise", said Gjorgoski.

Including high woman in the mission of peacekeeping became trend on the Balkans, said Method Hadži Janev, professor on Army academy in Skopje.

"Operative commanders increasingly associate effectiveness with the number of women in peace missions and roles which in they have. Took in respect traditional stands on women on the Balkans, said that is that serious progress", told Janev for SETimes.

Janev said that are woman now integral part of combat teams and command groups, but majority is in logistics teams or in the band of service support combat units.

Janev said and that are almost half local employed members of civil staff EUFOR woman.

Practice employment inspired young women in WERE yes build careers in safety sector.

"High myself attentions consecrates successful attraction women in area for which myself in past considered that they dominate men", told for SETimes Alexander Pehr, boss office EUFOR for relations with public in WERE.

Pehrs said that is EUFOR noted gave countries emphasize increased need for engagement female army staff in teams for tie and observation.

This year, Serbia is in six mission UN deployed high from 200 peacekeepers, majority in Lebanon and on Cyprus.

Serbia passed years for the mission of peacekeeping in Congo deployed first woman officer.

Woman do 7 percent staff for support in Serbian contingents in the circuit of missions peacekeeping.

Participation women is crucial for success of peace operations, said May Bjeloš, researchers on Belgrade centre for safety policy.

"Woman can play crucial role in securing good communication with local population, especially with women and their associations", told Bjeloš for SETimes.

Bjeloš said that direct contact, especially in societies in which is male-female contact banned or limited, soldiers can collected information which serve for the identification of area in which exist tension and area in which exists opportunity conflict.

"That is opportunity from crucial importance for managed missions, but and for security [all] member missions peacekeeping", told Bjeloš for SETimes.

Bjelošs is also said that is participation women in the missions of peacekeeping major because of cultural differences during the implementation of investigations on field – especially when is word on women or accommodation capacities in which reside woman – just like with providing of medical help.

"With their will help of local woman easy decided on the reporting of cases sexual and other violence", said.

Moreover, women in peace missions serve and as role models local women, showing that can do works who are traditional considered male, what motivate that try became they which bring decisions.

Women which participate in peace missions should watch in wide context balancing of gender roles in management safety sector, said Enri Hide, professor on European university in Tirana. "Those efforts last years, also from before entry in NATO, but especially after the getting of membership, when are Euro-Atlantic partners asked high degree of gender balance", told Hide for SETimes.

Woman from Albania are the year 2006 in mission ISAF in Afganistan for first time participated in army mission in abroad.

Hide said that participation women, with hightened degree of social emancipation, points and on high degree preparation and readiness.

"That improves prestige in framework of Euro-Atlantic alliance", said.

This are report contributed correspondent Ivan Jovanović from Beograd and Linda Karadaku from Priština.
