With increasing frequency, Balkan armies are assigning women soldiers and support staff to peacekeeping missions where they greatly contribute to the success of missions, officials said.

The Macedonian army announced a woman will lead its peacekeeping contingent in the ALTEA mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH).

Officials said the army is placing great emphasis on the equality of genders, and is now offering greater opportunities for women to be deployed in peacekeeping missions.

The army is fully applying NATO standards for women in peacekeeping missions, said Macedonia army spokesman Mirče Gjorgjoski.

"Full command responsibility is given to a female major in ALTEA, and our medical team there is responsible for full medical support of the soldiers at the base of Butmir in Sarajevo, where the EUFOR forces are stationed," Gjorgjoski told SETimes.

Gjorgjoski said that out of more than the 3,200 Macedonian soldiers that have served in peacekeeping missions since 2002, 141 are women, and that number is expected to increase as they assume greater responsibilities in missions abroad.

"In Afghanistan, women perform high-risk tasks as equally good as men. They continually receive high marks and praise," Gjorgjoski said.

Including more women in peacekeeping missions has become a trend in the Balkans, said Metodi Hadži Janev, a professor at the Military Academy in Skopje.

"Operative commanders increasingly associate effectiveness with the number of women in peace missions and the roles they have there. Given the traditional views about women in the Balkans, I would say this is serious progress," Janev told SETimes.

Janev said women are now an integral part of combat teams and command groups, but the majority is in the logistics teams or are part of the combat service support.

Janev also said almost half of the locally employed civilian EUFOR staff are women.

The hiring practice has inspired young women in BiH to pursue careers in the security sector.

"More attention is paid to successfully attracting females to fields that were considered to be male dominated in the past," Alexander Pehr, head of the EUFOR public relations office in BiH, told SETimes.

Pehr said EUFOR has noted the states that are emphasising the increased need for the engagement of female army staff in the liaison and observation teams.

This year, Serbia deployed more than 200 peacekeepers in six UN missions, the majority in Lebanon and Cyprus.

Serbia deployed its first woman officer to a peacekeeping mission in the Congo last year.

Women comprise 7 percent of peacekeeping missions support staff in Serbia's contingents.

Participation of women is crucial for the peacekeeping operations' success, said Maja Bjeloš, a researcher at the Belgrade Centre for Safety Policy.

"Women can play a crucial role in ensuring better communication with the local population, especially with women and their associations," Bjeloš told SETimes.

Bjeloš said that by engaging in direct contact, especially in societies where male-female contact is banned or limited, female soldiers can collect information for identification of areas where tension exists and areas where there are chances for conflict.

"That possibility is of crucial importance for the success of the mission, but also for the security of [all] peacekeeping mission members," Bjeloš told SETimes.

Bjeloš also said that the participation of women in peacekeeping missions is important because of cultural differences during investigation operations in the field -- particularly of women or facilities where women reside -- and in providing medical help.

"With their help, local women can more easily decide to report cases of sexual and other violence," she said.

Moreover, women in peacekeeping missions serve as role models for local women, showing that they can do work that is traditionally considered as men's jobs, and motivate them to try to become those who make decisions.

Women participating in peacekeeping missions should be seen in the wider context of balancing gender roles in the management of the security sector, said Enri Hide, a professor at the European University of Tirana. "These efforts have been going on for years, even before joining NATO, but especially after getting membership, when Euro-Atlantic partners asked for a higher degree of gender balance," said Hide for SETimes.

Women from Albania started to participate in army missions abroad for the first time in 2006 in the ISAF mission in Afghanistan.

Hide said participation of women points to a high degree of preparation and readiness in addition to a higher degree of social emancipation.

"This improves our prestige within the Euro-Atlantic alliance," he said.

Correspondents Ivana Jovanović in Belgrade and Linda Karadaku in Priština contributed to this report. 