The Romanian parliament buzzed with excitement on Tuesday (October 25th), when the Romanian king Michael I. delivered his first speech before the lawmakers in 64 years.

The main hall of sessions swarmed with a multitude of lawmakers, what is a rarity for a parliament famous for low rates of attendance on sittings. Balconies were brimming with monarchists who were waiting for the king's speech.

"The last 20 years brought democracy, freedom and the start of prosperity. Romania developed much in that period", said the king.

Praising the role of the parliament in post-communist Romania, he warned that "politics is a double-edged sword".

"It guarantees democracy and freedom, if carried out with respect for laws and institutions. However, politics can harm citizens, if applied to the scorn of law, through personalization of power and ignoral of the primary role of civil institutions", underlined Michael I.

He invited lawmakers to "trust democracy, the role of institutions and their laws", and act not only by the laws, but also by "ethics and a feeling for duty". "Tomorrow's world cannot exist without morale, faith and rememberance. Cynicism, narrow interests and cowardice should not take over our lives", said the king.

He called for development throughout the country by expanding infrastructure, a sector in which Romania significantly lags. "Freeways, modern ports and airports are our strength as an independent nation", he underlined.

"It is only in our power to make this country stable, prosperous and admired in the whole world", he added. "I don't see today's Romania as a legacy of our parents, but as a country which we borrowed from our children", concluded king Michael.

Historians assessed the significance of the moment and decrypted the message which stood behind the speech. "The king's speech was of historical character", Iulian Pruteanu-Isacescu, a historian and author of articles on the royal dynasty in Romania, told SETimes.

"Not one word was uttered randomly in that speech, which touched upon the crucial ideals of an imaginary and ideal Romania: respect for the past, love for the country, faith, rememberance, identity and dignity. His speech divides two worlds: a Romania of landmarks, still unaccomplished, and a Romania devoid of content, a country which is still at the gates of the East, where nothing is easily done", said Pruteanu-Isacescu.

The speech aroused reactions from many Romanians.

"I associate the idea of kingdom with stability, rigour and rule of law", said for SETimes pensioner Ioan Grigore. "I was young when he was overthrown, but I remember that he ruled over a society with entirely different values in contrast to these with which we live today… I have a feeling that this is what is necessary for Romania these days."

King Michael was forced out of Romania in the year 1948, when then pro-Soviet premier Petru Groza threatened him to make an abdication. Earlier this year, president Traian Basescu/Basescu accused king Michael of betraying the national interest by leaving the country in the arms of communists. 