Through perennial uncompromising activity the band managed to assert as a trademark of the city of Rijeka, of a whole region, and eventually the fans of inspired nonconformity in several countries.

Before 1986, during the forming of Let 2, more precisely at the very end of the 1970's, Damir Martinović Mrle played in the Rijeka punk band Termiti (whose hit "Loyal dog" the band would go on to cover years later). After the breakup of Termiti, Mrle continued his activity through the multimedia project Structural birds. Somewhere around that time Zoran Prodanović Prlja, the second half of the creative core of Let 3, gathers his first stage experiences in the band Artists of the Street. They together with a chosen team of Rijeka musicians start Let 2 in February of 1986. In the beginning of the following year the band changed its name to Let 3 and marked its first discographical output with two songs on the compilation "Rijeka - Paris - Texas".

The band was from the beginning of its activity followed with particular attention by that part of rock fans who were instantly enchanted with the substantial qualities of the citizens of Rijeka. In the continuation of its career the circle of fans constantly expanded, and in general the popular music listening public became aware that Let 3 are not just bizarre, loud weirdos, but also a first-class rock attraction and a truely unique artistic phenomenon. After the starting fascination with that in which Let 3 is truely outstanding (fantastic image and stage appearance) some other qualities of the band then became clear also; extraordinary lyrics, always perfect performing level (in first line of the frontman and singer Zoran Prodanović Prlja) dramaturgical and stylistic maturity of the concerts and public appearances in general, musical uniqueness, from the foundations of indie frenzy developed to extraordinary refinement, always followed by unique humour and a feeling for the bizarre. Let 3 never parodied, commented nor denied, neither their musical, nor their social or political environment, just as they never indulged it.

On the 26th February of 2001 the band Let 3 donated the monument "Hag's cock". The monument is four metres high and made from bronze. The monument was revealed in Zagreb, Rijeka, Pula, Split and Ljubljana.
