Through perennial uncompromising activity band managed to assert as the trademark of city Rijeka, of a whole region, and eventually fan of inspired nonconformity to high country.

Before 1986, course forming Let 2, right on am end of the 1970's, Damir Martinović Mrle played to Rijeka punk band Termiti (whose hit "Loyal dog" band covered years later). After the breakup of Termiti, Mrle continues his activity through multimedia project of Structural bird. Somewhere around that time Zoran Prodanović Prlja, second half of creative core Let 3, gathers his first stage experiences to the band of Artists street. They together with chosen team of Rijeka musicians start to February the year 1986 Let 2. Beginning of next year band changes name to Let 3 and marks first discography output with two song on the compilation "of Rivers - Paris - Texas".

Band is from the beginning of activity followed particular attention that part rock fan who were instantly enchanted with the substantial qualities of the citizen of Rijeka. To the continuation of career circle fan constantly expanded, and in general is popular musical public became aware gave Let 3 are not very bizarre, loud weirdos, but also first-class rock attractions and truely unique artistic phenomenon. After starting fascination that to what is Let 3 truely outstanding (fantastic image and stage appearance) became clearly and stayed quality band; extraordinary lyrics, always perfect performing level (to first line frontman and singer Zoran Prodanović Prlja) dramaturgical and stylistic maturity concerts and public appears general, musical uniqueness, from bases indie frenzy developed to extraordinary refinement, always followed by unique humour and feeling for bizarrely. Let 3 never not are parodied, commented or denied, were his musical, were social or political environment, just as him not are nor indulged.

on February 26 of 2001 band Let 3 donated monument "Hag's cock". Monument is four metre high and made from bronze. Monument is revealed to Zagreb, Rijeka, Pula, Split and Ljubljana.
